# Improved error bounds for Koopman operator and reconstructed trajectories approximations with kernel-based methods

## Authors
- Diego Olguín (Departamento de Ingeniería Matemática, Universidad de Chile; Centro de Modelamiento Matemático, Universidad de Chile).
- Axel Osses (Departamento de Ingeniería Matemática, Universidad de Chile; Centro de Modelamiento Matemático, Universidad de Chile).
- Héctor Ramírez (Departamento de Ingeniería Matemática, Universidad de Chile; Centro de Modelamiento Matemático, Universidad de Chile).

## Abstract
In this article, we propose a new error bound for Koopman operator approximation using Kernel Extended Dynamic Mode Decomposition. The new estimate is $O(N^{-1/2})$, with a constant related to the probability of success of the bound, given by Hoeffding's inequality, similar to other methodologies, such as Philipp et al. Furthermore, we propose a \textit{lifting back} operator to obtain trajectories generated by embedding the initial state and iterating a linear system in a higher dimension. This naturally yields an $O(N^{-1/2})$ error bound for mean trajectories. Finally, we show numerical results including an example of nonlinear system, exhibiting successful approximation with exponential decay faster than $-1/2$, as suggested by the theoretical results. 

## Links
- **Article**: [Link to the article](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2506.09266)
- **Notebooks**:  
    - [Linear models](notebooks/linear.ipynb)
    - [SIR epidemiological model](notebooks/SIR.ipynb) 

## Installation
To set up the environment and run the notebooks, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/diegoolguinw/kedmd_bound.git
    cd kedmd_bound
    ```

2. Create and activate a conda environment using the provided `.yml` file:
    ```bash
    conda env create -f environment.yml
    conda activate kedmd_env
    ```

3. Verify the installation:
    ```bash
    conda list
    ```

## License
MIT License.
